I know you agree, your Gilead training has been a gift, a gift from Jehovah, Jesus Christ,
and the faithful and discreet slave.
Have you thought about how you're going to share your gift and allow others to benefit
from your training when you return to your assignment?
It's a good question.
When we get back to the busyness of a routine, perhaps the stress and anxieties of increased
responsibility, sharing a gift may be the last thing on your mind.
So it's good to think about it now.
What will help you to strengthen, encourage, motivate, and instruct those who you oversee,
your workmates, your brothers and sisters in the congregation?
We can learn much from the way Jesus dealt with people.
Like you, Jesus was entrusted with a beautiful gift.
Unlike you and me, Jesus had some amazing abilities.
For example, he could read hearts.
The scriptures describe an occasion when Jesus responded to a man's thoughts rather
than to his words.
Do you think Jesus' ability to know what his audience was thinking and feeling enhanced
his effectiveness as he shared his gift?
Of course.
But interestingly, the scriptures reveal that Jesus dignified people in the way he communicated
with them.
He often asked meaningful questions and listened attentively to the answers before he shared
his gift.
For a few minutes this morning, let's consider two occasions when Jesus did just that.
When doing so, we'll get some pointers that will assist you to be effective in sharing
your gift of Gilead training.
The first account is found in the Bible book of Mark, chapter 10.
Let's turn there to gather.
Mark, chapter 10, beginning in verse 35, James and John, the sons of Zebedee, approached
him and said to him, teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you.
He said to them, what do you want me to do for you?
They replied, grant us to sit down one at your right hand and one at your left in your
glory.
The parallel account in Matthew reveals that James and John did not approach Jesus on their
own.
They had their mother do it for them.
Do you think as this woman approached Jesus, he knew what she wanted, probably.
How did he deal with her?
Did he interrupt her?
Reprimand her?
No.
Instead he asked a question, what do you want me to do for you?
The second account is just a few verses down, Mark chapter 10, beginning in verse 46.
Here we learn about a blind beggar named Bartimaeus.
He sat by the road and when he heard that Jesus was passing by, he called out.
Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me.
The crowd tried to quiet him, but Bartimaeus called out even more loudly.
Jesus stopped and said, bring him to me.
Now Bartimaeus had an audience with the Son of God.
How did Jesus address Bartimaeus?
In verse 51, Jesus said to him, what do you want me to do for you?
The blind man said to him, rebony, let me recover my sight.
And Jesus said to him, go, your faith has made you well.
And immediately he recovered his sight and he began to follow Jesus on the road.
What do you want me to do for you?
The same question in both accounts, very different situations.
Why do you think Jesus asked this question?
Well, he accomplished at least four things.
What were they?
Well, first of all, he dignified his audience by encouraging communication.
Number two, he allowed his audience to reveal what was in his or her heart,
to put it on the table as it were.
In his dealings with James and John, the question actually protected Jesus
and gave him an opportunity to give those two apostles a valuable lesson in modesty.
This matter of giving the right and left places in the kingdom is not mine to give.
Finally, in the case of Bartimaeus, would you agree the question provided opportunity
to strengthen Bartimaeus' faith and to give him effective assistance?
Allowing Bartimaeus to articulate his desire, what do you want?
And then to experience the immediate realization,
would have left no doubt in Bartimaeus' mind that he had been considered.
And how did it affect him?
Well, the account says he began to follow Jesus on the road.
It's a beautiful example of asking a question that helps you to share your gift.
When I was a newly appointed circuit overseer,
the elders in a congregation that I was serving expressed concern about a sister
who was missing meetings.
They asked me if I would be willing to make a shepherding visit.
Of course, I was happy to do that.
The arrangements were made, another elder accompanied me,
and I shared all of the appropriate verses about meeting attendants.
The sister listened, and as we were leaving, she looked me in the eye,
and she said, you don't have a clue.
At the time, I thought she was being disrespectful.
But as I thought about it, I came to wish that instead of showing up with all the appropriate verses,
I had showed up with all of the appropriate questions.
What do you want me to do for you?
How may I help?
What's been happening in your life?
Those kinds of questions allow you to render meaningful assistance.
I learned from that experience.
I hope you can learn from my mistake.
Don't make the mistake of thinking you know what a person wants or needs.
Jesus did know, and he still asked questions.
Didn't I, the audience, allow your listener to reveal what is in his or her heart?
It may protect you, and it allows you to render meaningful assistance.
Approach your assignment the way Jesus approached his.
What do you want me to do for you?
If you do, not only will you effectively share your gift,
you will be a gift wherever you serve.